### Building and using ArcSWAT for ArcGIS Pro###

##Introduction##

ArcSWAT is built as an add-in for ArcGIS Pro, and once installed will be found in Documents/ArcGIS/Addins/ArcGISPro/{*id*}/ArcSWAT*M.N*.esriAddinX, where *id* is an identifier unique to the project, and M and N are athe major and minor version numbers of the intended version of ArcGIS Pro.  Each *M.N* pair is a different project.

##Build system file structure##

There is a folder ArcSWAT3 which contains 
1. The Visual Studio solution *ArcSWAT3.sln*. 
2. A folder *Common* containing the source and other files which are common to all the projects.  They are referenced by link instead of being copied into the projects, so that editing one will change all projects.  *ArcSWAT3StartButton.cs* is an exception: see below.
3. A folder *ArcSWATM.N* for each of the projects.

In the project folders there is the *ArcSWATM.N.csproj* project file and a *Config.daml* file.  ArcSWAT3.6 also contains a *ArcSWAT3StartButton.cs* file since it needs to be different from the Common/ArcSWAT3StartButton.cs file.: it does not use the MaxRev nuget packages for GDAL but instead a new ESRI package *Esri.ArcGISPro.Gdal* for that task. 
The project files are identical except that:
1.  The version of *Esri.ArcGISPro.Extensions30* must match the *M.N* values for the project in the major.minor positions
2.  Version 3.6 references *Esri.ArcGISPro.Gdal*, and earlier versions instead reference *MaxRev.Gdal.Core* and *MaxRev.Gdal.WindowsRuntime.Minimal*
3.  Version 3.6 has no link to *Common/ArcSWAT3StartButton.cs*.

The *Config.daml* files are identical except that:
1.  Each has its own unique AddInInfo id.  These are generated by Visual Studio by starting a new ArcGIS Pro add-in project.
2.  The version in AddInInfo is the add-in version, and might differ between projects.
3.  The AddInInfo desktopVersion is set to "M.N" to match the major.minor values for the version of ArcGIS Pro it is to be used with.
4.  *M.N* appears in the AssemblyVersion, in the AddInInfo Name and Description, and in the ArcSWATPlus_Group1 caption.

Building a project should generate a .esriAddinX file in bin/x64/(Debug|Release)/net8.0-windows7.0.  If it does not, change the Copy to Output Directory property of Config.daml to *Do not copy*, build the project, then change the property back to *Copy always* and build again.  The file is required in the add-in for the version number to be read from it, but this setting can interfere with the build.

##Running ArcSWAT##

Double click on the .esriAddinX file to install it, choosing the one that matches the major.minor version of the ArcGIS Pro you are using.  After starting ArcGIS Pro you will see **ArcSWAT** in the top row of headings.  Double click it and a start button will appear.  Check that this says it is for the correct major.minor version of ArcGIS Pro you are running.  You can click on Project and then About to see the ArcGIS Pro version.

The main ArcSWAT form is the same as that for QGIS and you run projects in the same way.

There are two differences in visualisation:
1.  Animation does not work in ArcGIS Pro.  
2.  Static result maps are created in new map panels.  This changes how print layouts are created.  The inital template is selected as in QSWAT, by choosing lanscape or portrait and the number of maps.  But then the separate panels need to be added by selecting a Map Frame in the Layout, choosing the Element tab on the right, and then selecting the desired map in the pull-down menu under Map Frame.




